the leader of Hamas political Bureau
ishma khier has issued a statement
saying Ceasar negotiations were at their
final stage when the nerat massacre was
carried out he thinks that operation was
meant to create obstacles to reach an
agreement to end the war Kan go on to
say that us support of Israel's actions
makes it complicit in these
crimes well the Israeli governments
banned Al jaer from reporting in Israel
so Imran Khan's joining us from the
Jordanian Capital Aman so in the
meantime of course US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin is visiting after that
raid which released four captives but
killed 274 Palestinians it sounds as
though that's had a knock on effect on
the ceasefire negotiations as
well that's absolutely right this is a
big tour for the US Secretary of State
he's had his meeting right now with um
president uh fata ali um he's president
Abdul fat of Egypt actually issued a
statement saying the US's Secretary of
State Lincoln agrees on intent ifying
joint efforts to reach a Gaza ceasefire
and a hostage exchange now before he's
flying to Israel Anthony binin has
blinkin has been speaking and he's
effectively set out his stall what he's
saying is this it's critical to work on
plans for a day after the Gaza War uh
the US is telling Regional leaders if
you want a ceasefire then you've got to
press Hamas to say yes and the only
outlier to the ceasefire deal is Hamas
um Egypt says that the the their count
parts were communicating with Hamas as
recently as a few hours ago that's a STK
contrast to what you've just uh reported
about isma hania saying we were very
close to a deal and then the al-nur
massacre happened so he's really set out
his store from Egypt he flies uh to
Israel he's got a meeting at 600 with
the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu at 8:30 with the defense
minister y Galant 950 with the Israeli
Minister Benny Gans who's currently
without portfolio cuz he quit the
cabinet and then a meeting with the
Israeli president Isaac Herzog then on
Tuesday he's at the humanitarian
assistance conference here in Arman uh
and he's got a 4:00 meeting with the
Jordanian King Abdullah then on
Wednesday the he's got a meeting with
the Qatari Amir and then with the qari
Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign
Affairs then at 5:00 on Wednesday there
will be a press conference all eyes will
be on that press conference to see what
Anthony blinkin has has actually managed
to achieve there are still significant
differences over the ceasefire
particularly from Hamas and from Israel
with very different points of view on
what a good ceasefire deal looks like so
that press conference 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday is going to be crucial let's
see where we are then Imran thank you
very much Imran Khan talking to us from
Aman let me remind you of course that
Benjamin netanyahu's cabinets banned Al
jaer from working in Israel and it's
extended that decision on Sunday and
that's why Imran is joining us from uh
neighboring Jordan we're going to hear
from Anthony blinkin in Ciro as imram
was explaining he says he's asking adab
states to press Hamas to agree to the
Israeli truce deal recently announced by
President Joe
Biden the only party that has not
accepted the only party that's not said
yes is Hamas the Palestinians in Gaza
are waiting on it's who the Israelis are
waiting on it's who the hostages and the
hostage families are waiting
on Hussein khidi is a former Egyptian
assistant foreign minister and former
Egyptian field artillery officer in the
October 1973 War he's joining us now
live from Cairo thank you very much
indeed for being with us sir um Anthony
blinken's been talking to uh the
president what role other than
negotiations can Egypt play how what is
the leverage that Egypt can have in
this well it's it's not a question of
Leverage it's a question of history and
strategy and and and and the Egyptian
role in Regional politics and
particularly in the Palestinian question
I doubt very much if any power great or
small can Sid step the Egyptian role in
uh Regional politics and in the
Palestinian question so that's why uh in
the last eight uh trips of uh nited
States SEC State Mr Anthony linkoln to
the Middle East Egypt was has always
been
uh station where he held talks with the
Egyptian president and his Egyptian
counterpart on how to move forward and
and and this time I get there are the
Americans are very interested in uh
listening to the Egyptian point of view
concerning the Rafa Crossing on the one
hand and the other hand on the other
hand how to proceed with the uh road map
that the United States president Biden
outlined uh on on on Friday May the 31st
and we are ready we are we look forward
to coordinate with the with the United
States in order to uh uh move ahead and
bring this war to an end because the
bottom line uh the bottom line is that
this war in Gaza must come to an end
that's the conclusion of President Biden
last last May 31st and it's identical
with the Egyptian position we I don't
think that neither the Israelis nor the
Palestinians nor the Middle Eastern
countries can pay the price can pay the
high price of this war continuing or
going on like the way we have been
witnessing lately the uh
objectives the objectives uh of the
American road map uh the release of
hostages surge in humanitarian Aid to
Gaza uh and and then a permanent
ceasefire accompanied with a complete
withdrawal of Israeli forces in Gaza
these are uh aims that are shared by
Egypt and I guess the talks today
between the Egyptian president at TI and
second of State Anthony blinkin uh dealt
with these issues with a particular
emphasis on uh how uh and when the Rafa
Crossing would be uh reopened
is there any indication uh that you have
from from Cairo as to when that might
happen what the timetable might be for
the reopening of the Raa Crossing as we
were discussing earlier on in the
program it is absolutely key of course
to getting humanitarian Aid into
Gaza well before answering question let
me let me point out to one one one one
thing that should be clear and that's
that uh uh uh the RAF Crossing is the is
not the only Crossing with the Gaza
Strip uh and of course uh we are working
with the Americans and with the
Europeans uh on the conditions uh to
reopen the RAF Crossing and hopefully
hopefully after this uh uh trip of Mr
blinkin we with the United States can
reach Arrangements that that would meet
the Egyptian conditions that the
Palestinian side of the Rafa Crossing
should not be managed
by uh uh the Israelis as as as it has
happened after they uh exercise control
on that part of the ra Crossing early
May last May so I let let's hope that in
the in in in the near future uh there
there would be acceptable Arrangements
uh according to Egyptian conditions that
whereby the ra Crossing be reopen having
said that let me say let me say once
again again that there are other land
Crossings between Gaza Strip and Israel
and we call on Israel to reopen all
these Crossings not less than three or
four crossings that Israel uh has closed
on October 88 and they they remain
closed save for a brief period of time
of the Reds Crossing uh
between Israel and and Gaza in the north
so uh it's not not a question of Raa
Crossing only uh and by the way uh let
me remind your uh your your uh those who
are watching our your program that Raa
Crossing originally is for passengers
it's not for goods and all the other
Crossing run by Israel on Israeli
territory are for uh uh goods and and
and shipments so um we have noticed that
uh lately uh the international
media has stressed on the Rafa Crossing
understanda we understand the
humanitarian reasons behind that behind
that and we share these humanitarian
reasons but uh the fact of the matter is
the problem is the question the the the
the question now is that Israel is
incumbent on on on Israel to reopen all
the rain Crossings between Israel and
the Gaza um Egypt is in an interesting
position with regard to the Gaza Strip
and with regard to Israel as well
because it has if I understand it
correctly um had for many years an
understanding shall we say with Israel
with regard to the Gaza Strip isra Egypt
has of course its own concerns with
regard to Palestinians possibly making
their way into the the Sinai desert does
that give Egypt any additional um
ability to uh put pressure on uh Israel
with regards to avoiding that happening
particularly with regard say to Israel's
actions in
Rafa well it from an Egyptian point of
view it's it's much deeper than that uh
uh it's much deeper than that we are
mainly concerned about the future of
Palestine we are mainly concerned about
ending the Israeli occupation of the
West Bank and the lifting uh lifting of
the Israeli boycott of of the Gaza
uh we we have followed the Israeli
statements official and non-official
claiming or asking for a complete
Israeli control over the Gaza Strip in
the years to come and Egypt Egypt
rejects
this this Israeli approach what we are
aiming at with the Americans with the
qataris with the United Nations with the
European Union is to agree H to agree on
Way Forward as far as the future of the
Gaza Strip is concerned plus the future
of the political settlement of the
Palestinian question now of course we
are interested in in bringing the the
Israeli War uh uh in Gaza to to an end
but our position goes further than that
once this war comes to an end we have to
look at the future and for from an
Egyptian point of view the future cannot
the same as the situation had been
before October
7th please forgive me interrupting you I
do apologize but I'm afraid time is
against us but we're very grateful to
you for being with us on Al sir thank
you very much
indeed thank you
sir make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler